>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So classes
represent reference types, as I mentioned,
but you can declare your own specialized
value types, and those are called structs.
And structs in the business world,
in the in the programming world,
unless you're working on high
performance code, you're probably
not gonna declare a lot of them, but
it's important to know that they exist.
So, this is a struct of a point,
which is probably the most ubiquitous
struct example that I could provide,
which is essentially to say that
this is a thing that will be instantiated
and live in the stack, okay?
So it will be cleaned up
immediately as it leaves scope.
It has structural equality built Into it.
So as long as X and Y are equal values,
two instances of point
will be considered equal.
So the handling of this, the main reason I
bring up Structs is to just let you know
that they exist and understand that there
are different semantics, memory handling,
semantics here.
Structs, if you're doing a lot
of mathematical operations or,
If you're collecting a lot of data,
maybe you're doing some complex math or
tracking a lot of points on a graph,
and you need to do some real strong.
If you declare them as a class, you're
probably going to get a performance hit,
versus if you declare them as a struct,
the memory in the stack is
a lot faster to access.
So, point I wanna make is that structs
exist most of the time I don't use them,
I use the ones that are declared for
me by other frameworks.
But this is a structure or
a thing that I tend to respect as just
an option in case the time arises,
where I really need to perform a lot
of mathematical operations and
I wanna do it on a series of objects,
usually like a bunch of points, right?
A collection of points, and
I need to do some kind of operation or
some kind of math on those objects.
Structs can be anything,
they can even have reference
types inside of their properties.
I would say that there
are things that you can do, and
there are things that you should do.
And I never, if I declare structs,
I never declare them in a way where there
are reference types inside, and I always
declare them as immutable structures.
So they would look something like this.
I would construct them such
that I close those setters.
Look ma, no setter.
I close those setters and
I just instantiate those values via
the constructor, that's structs.
Again, high performance most of
the time isn't gonna matter, but
you need to know that it exists
because you will encounter them.
Lots of structs inside of .NET.
However, record Types are really cool.
Record types are awesome, they
are reference types, but they have struct
like properties, and they're meant to be
kind of just dumb containers of data.
So let me show you what they look like.
You can see that a public record,
this is a public record person,
so I'm gonna go ahead and
copy and paste this over here.
A record is a special type of class
that has some implications, right?
Again, they're meant to be
dumb containers of data.
So you can see that this has a name and
it has an age.
So one of the big features about records
is that they are structurally equal by
default.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So I am gonna create a new person and
because this is effectively the definition
for its constructor,
I'm going to give it the name.
So I'm gonna say Spencer and
I'm gonna say 37 and
I'm gonna do the same thing down here,
Spencer 37, okay?
I'm gonna compare these I'm actually
gonna use the double equals this time.
Double equals compare and
see what happens.
Open up my terminal, Control+Shift+
tilde and dotnet run.
Let's see what is it complaining about?
I think I typed a character
somewhere in here.
I did type D tilde.
All right, there we go.
And you're gonna see that these
are now considered equal.
So they're kind of like really specialized
class types but because of their
structural equality, they have a lot
of implications in terms of when you're
trying to process lots of data and you
need to remove duplicates, for instance.
Or you just need to define something,
a quick object to hold some data.
But you don't wanna go through the get
public string, name, get set, and
write that out for
ten different properties.
You can use person records instead.
They also have this really neat
syntax where you can actually
create a new person from
another person record.
So we would say, person one with, and
then we'll just change
their name to George.
And that will effectively
give you a person one record,
a person two record with the name George,
but it will copy over all the other
properties that you don't specify.
So in this case, person 1, or
sorry, person 2 would have the age of 37.
Because I'm doing a lot of processing
usually to and from databases,
this with syntax is not
something I do a ton of.
I'm going to be real with you, but I do use records.
Records are a relatively new feature,
right?
So I do use them, but I don't use
the "with" syntax. That said, it's there and
it's useful if you need it.
It's actually kind of a language
feature of F sharp once upon a time.
It's a very functional language,
and part of that is.
it's like, want to create new objects,
knit objects from other objects.
So it's kind of, you could say that
it was kind of born from that.
Yes, Marc,
>> Marc: Should you use records or
structs or classes for DTOs?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That
is a great question, actually,
I think let's actually address that.
Good lead in to records versus
classes versus structs.
So structs for DTOs, the answer is no.
I would use structs when I need them for
high performance, because I need to access
a large amount of objects do some
kind of mathematical operation,
and I need to do it very quickly.
I'm probably gonna reach for structs.
I'm going to use records or
classes for DTOs, and
I will spoiler alert,
the ASP.NET course will almost,
will exclusively use classes simply
because that is what I'm used to writing.
But for DTOs, and I'll explain what that
is in a second, I would use records or
classes.
So I mentioned that
records are kind of just,
they're dummy kind of holding things.
They don't have any behaviors,
there's no methods on them, right?
So they're just made,
their real use is to hold data.
Now you can, if you want to add behaviors
to records but I choose not to do that.
I'm deliberately not kind of showing that
because I want records to be used what
they're meant to be used for
which is just containers for data, okay?
Okay, I lost my point there.
Yes, so in terms of the question,
what is a data transfer object, a DTO?
An object, a DTO is simply an object that
moves data from one thing to another.
When we're talking about
the context of an API,
this will be important when
we're sending JSON to and
from a system, because we may send a JSON
object, something that looks like this.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Something that
looks like this, where we have a name,
Spencer and
we wanna marshal that into our system.
Let's make the squiggles go away
because they're distracting.
Boom, okay.
When we're sending data to and from
a target system in a format like JSON or
some other structured data format,
typically once that reaches
the C-Sharp system, our .NET system,
it'll be represented by something,
and in that case, it'll be represented by
a, probably a person type, right, where
we can take this name and then set it to
this, which we'll see plenty of examples
of when we get to that section.
A DTO is just basically a representation
of data that could be incoming or
outgoing.
So the answer to the question is, I'm
gonna use either classes or records, but
because I'm used to using classes,
I'm probably gonna use classes.